With emergence of Internet of Things (IoT), wireless traffic has grown dramatically, posing severe strain on core
network and backhaul bandwidth. Proactive caching in mobile
edge computing systems can not only efficiently mitigate the traffic congestion and relieve burden of backhaul but also can reduce
the service latency for end devices. However, proactive caching
heavily relies on the prediction accuracy of content popularity,
which is typically unknown and change over time. In this paper,
we propose an online proactive caching scheme based on bidirectional deep recurrent neural network (BRNN) model to predict
time-series content requests and update edge caching accordingly. Specifically, on the first layer, a 1-D convolution neural
network (CNN) is devised to reduce the computational costs.
Then, BRNN is employed to predict time-varying requests from
users. Afterward, a fully connected neural network (FCNN) is
harnessed to learn and sample predicts from the BRNN. Finally,
we conduct experiments based on real datasets, which demonstrate that the proposed approach can achieve considerably high
prediction accuracy and significantly improve content hit rate of
end devices.
Moreover, the emergence of various services and applications, such as augmented reality, virtual reality, and intelligent
transportation, require efficient and real-time data collection
and data processing. To address these challenges, storage,
and computation resources expects to be provisioned to end
devices in proximity, giving birth to mobile edge computing (MEC) [5]–[8]. Consequently, with the aid of MEC, the
demands from end devices can be served locally and quickly,
rather than being served by the remote cloud through backhaul. In other words, through decentralizing cloud service and
spreading the burden of cloud servers in core networks to base
stations (BSs), the requests for both contents and computations
can be satisfied locally, which significantly mitigates the pressure on core network and reduces the service latency for end
devices.
MEC poses many challenges in terms of deployment and
resource management [9], [10]. By incorporation of storage
and computation resources in networks, it is of importance
yet very challenging to utilize various forms of resources
in an efficient way to meet different users’ needs. For the
time-varying requests from end devices, it is found that the
requests may exhibit certain similarity among different users
over time. The same popular contents may be requested at similar locations in different time instants. Therefore, as presented
in [11], and [12], proactively caching reusable contents, such
as video streams and high-resolution images during off-peak
periods and reusing cached content in peak hours, can reduce
traffic loads in backhaul and service latency of end users so
that the QoE [13] can be improved [11], [14]. For computation
requests, some computation applications and data can also be
stored such that the response can be made promptly for tasks
from users [15].
